Israel has banned Al jazer from
reporting from there so let's go to S
hiat who joins us now from the Jordanian
Capital Aman and S I know we've been
keeping a close eye on these protests uh
throughout the evening in Tel Aviv but
in the last half hour or so they've
turned from what was relatively peaceful
to quite uh violent uh clashes between
protesters and
police yeah that's right Tom I'm just
looking at the pictures here um
obviously you were saying we can't
report from there cuz we've been banned
but we have been covering these protests
right from when they first started
certainly when the families uh of those
held captive were gathering in what's
known as hostage Square in uh Tel Aviv
we were there uh all of the time that we
were covering those protests on Saturday
uh they started off relatively peaceful
and certainly this is um this is the
first time if you're looking on your
screens now you'll see uh the horses
turning up they've already uh taken out
brought out the uh uh water dirty water
known as skunk water as well tanks um
and also we've been seeing some uh
protesters uh being arrested and that's
because they're BL blocking one of the
main intersections in Tel Aviv in
central Tel Aviv in fact and that's
something a lot of the anti-government
protesters and those that are protesting
against the prime minister in fact
calling on him to immediately resign
they said because of the handling of the
war because half of those that were
taken captive almost 125 of them are
still stuck in Gaza and their families
don't know whether they're still alive
or dead many of them have been speaking
today one of those is a mother of one of
those that was killed and their bodies
brought back yesterday saying that
enough is enough we need answers and we
need to see the rest of those that are
still stuck there to be brought back
this as we're seeing and it seems that
there will be talk taking place next
week uh Israeli media has been reporting
that it will possibly take place in
Qatar Hamas has also come out with a
statement saying that uh it won't be
held on Tuesday contrary to what Israeli
media is reporting so the details are
still very much unclear but the tensions
that you're seeing in those pictures
that's certainly a step up from what
we've been seeing in the last few weeks
Anger from the side of the protesters
Anger from the sides of the families at
the stalemate they feel uh that there's
not they're not getting anywhere with
this war some of the families have also
been speaking on public TV saying that
they were told by the Israeli military
that they had finished in the north of
the Gaza Strip that they'd eliminated
Hamas and the fighters and the commander
commanders rather in fact in the north
and that's why they moved on to the
center of the Gaza Strip and then onto
the South and Rafa well there they are
again in jabalia now today it's the 14th
or 13th day even uh since the Israeli
troops have returned yes they managed to
retrieve those three bodies but the
biggest concern the families of those
captives have is that they will come
back dead and that's their biggest worry
and on top of that just today as well
more Rockets coming from Lebanon in the
northern part of the country so a lot of
those families or lot of those hotels in
and around that square that you're
seeing are housing those that to be
forced out of their homes from that
northern border and from the border with
the Gaza Strip and they're losing money
they want to go back to their lives and
they're seeing no results so far and
that's why they're angry but they're
also being met by what seems to be some
form of Force if you look on social
media and if you look at those that are
speaking out they're saying that this
kind of force is absolutely unnecessary
and they will continue they say to
protest until they see those results Tom
yes s you're talking about tension
overflowing into anger the just the
frustration after months and months of
this war going on with the Netanyahu
government the war cabinet these
protests are obviously designed to try
and put as much pressure on the Prime
Minister and his cabinet as possible is
there any sign at this stage that that
pressure is actually
[Music]
working well well um and I just keep
looking to the side because I'm looking
at the pictures as we speak but um prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu uh it seems
had a meeting a few days ago with some
of those uh that are in the know on the
negotiations and it seems it was a
result of some of the pressure that the
families had put on uh the war cabinet
and that was after they had released a
video showing five females female
soldiers uh that had been kidnapped and
taken across to Gaza on October uh the
7th it was very gory it was quite
detailed and in fact today they've been
uh showing that in front of the Kira
that's the defense Ministry on a massive
screen and they said that they had hoped
by showing that video that it would put
pressure on Netanyahu and also on the
government this at a time when Israel is
also facing huge backlash obviously we
saw the icj order yesterday and then
there's also ICC Pro Chief prosecutor
that's seeking an arrest warrant for
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu as
well as the defense minister U Galant so
on the international stage they can see
that Israel is coming under a lot of
scrutiny now when you hear from the
families what they're now starting to
say is that they feel that every
decision that's being taken isn't with
the captives in mind isn't with the
families in mind what's what what's in
it for the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and certainly for those within
this farri government is that he they
say that the decisions are politically
motivated and to save themselves when we
talk about saving themselves why is that
because prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is facing a trial within his
country that pre goes before he even got
elected to become the Prime Minister the
current prime minister through this
coalition government and also on top of
that now with the seeking of an arrest
warrant it could potentially mean that
at some point it would be further so the
concerns here are that this is personal
and politically motivated and that when
it comes to the interests of the
families and those held captive they say
they want an immediate end to the war
and that they feel that their government
isn't representing them and doesn't have
their interest to h s some really quite
remarkable scenes uh that we are
watching unfold on the streets of Tel
Aviv now the uh police clearly moving in
and trying to disband this large group
of protesters that are that are trying
to hold their ground at this point in
time as you say these started out as
just peaceful protest that we have seen
uh every Saturday evening in Tel Aviv
for months now uh but we've never seen
them uh escalate to this uh level uh in
recent times s you talked a little bit
about how politically motivated um the
the the the cabinet the war cabinet is
that they basically just want to save
themselves save their own political
necks at this point in time can you just
talk a little bit about how fractured
that cabinet is right now between the
decisions that Netanyahu is making on
the ground and and the pressure that uh
clearly is coming on them uh from
Israelis
[Music]
themselves yes absolutely when you look
at the divisions those fractures didn't
appear right in the beginning when uh
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu formed
a small War cabinet uh that included
people with previous experience and they
stayed United but over the weeks over
time you started to see some cracks
appear and certainly a couple of weeks
ago if I remember correctly uh one of
those War cabinet uh members came out
with a scathing uh Speech against prime
minister net Yahoo and really calling
out those divisions and then just a few
days ago through a freedoms of act uh uh
it was revealed that the uh Israeli
military had it seemed warned the Prime
Minister and warned the government that
those divisions that existed in the
country because of them wanting to
introduce judicial reforms was weakening
them in front of what they said were the
eyes of the enemy uh for them for the
Israelis for example for Hamas
and those warnings it seems weren't just
internal but uh it seems also Egypt for
example had a few months ago said that
they had also indicated that there could
be some potential security breach uh so
you know the the people the leaders of
this country were so busy with these
anti-government protests and judicial
reforms before the war and not just that
Tom busy by sending all their troops to
uh the occupied territories for example
occupied West Bank every day we see
raids daily day every single night
people are arrested uh families mothers
uh people's homes are demolished in
those occupied territories and occupied
uh East Jerusalem for example uh and
that's exactly why on October the 7th uh
where were all the uh forces when they
needed them on that border with Gaza a
lot of them were in the West Bank and
that's exactly one of the reasons why a
lot of those families of those cap blame
uh prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
the Army because they said that they had
dropped the ball they put their focus
elsewhere and What mattered was the
warnings that something may be Brewing
now that's in terms of the divisions
when you also look at for example the
icj order uh that we heard yesterday um
the discussions that are happening in
Israel are at the moment is that they
believe the uh the Supreme Court which
is independent
in Israel should be looking into the
situation and these accusations and
looking into whether the military uh has
created or or or breached International
humanitarian law which could potentially
then help them if they are if this is
taken further on the international stage
but they're not doing that they say
they're investigating some of the
comments made by uh ministers far-right
ministers for example itar benav these
is national security minister or the
Finance Minister who's also in charge of
the illegal uh settlements in occupied
West Bank that's bezal smotrich they've
made incredibly inflammatory uh remarks
which could amount to incitement of
genocide for example uh they have
repeatedly said that they welcome anyone
from Gaza uh volunteering to leave the
Gaza Strip and have called on Egypt many
times to open their borders to allow
Palestinians to leave another example is
that they want the resettlement of let's
remind our viewers that Israel had
occupied Gaza and withdrew in 2005 they
want uh the uh illegal Israeli settlers
to re settle Gaza so those remarks on